welcome to today's episode and
today's episode is dedicated to
installing local instance of creatio on
your machine
installing it on site um and so today
we're going to take a look at
some of the steps that are required that
are expected of you as a developer or as
a system administrator
to perform in order to deploy creation
on
your local on your local machine data
server be it a local
local workstation for development
purposes for testing for
pre-production doesn't matter we're just
going to take a look at some of the
required steps what you're seeing on the
screen now
is i have navigated to creatio
or i've navigated to academy
creation.com and i went into a
documentation section so if you just
simply click on this documentation
button
you will be greeted with a lot of
documentation
towards the bottom of the page you will
be able to find documentation on setup
and administration
right here and if you come here on the
left hand side
you will find a way to deploy here is a
link that will follow and in this case
we're going to be following on-site
deployment instructions
now there are a couple of instructions
or is the documentation is broken down
into multiple sections
just to make it a little bit easier so
we're going to cover one by one
let's start off with system requirements
system requirements broken down into
client and server side and client will
skip for now but essentially
you need to make sure that you have a
modern browser now
in here in system requirements this is
where the more difficult part starts
the article goes into details explaining
various possible installation options
and it's listing uh some deployment
ideas here where you have
dotnet application or iis is server
you've got a database could be ms sql it
could be a postgrad
it could be oracle and a third component
a minimum component
redis and this constitutes a minimum
required
components that are necessary to run
creation
so redis iis and a database of your
choice
there are more difficult and more
challenging
installations for example when you want
to go in the farm when you want to go
load balancer when you want to run redis
in the cluster
you can configure your installation in
that way but for our purposes for today
for simple development machine
pre-production
we're not going to be going with the
installation of farm as it's fairly
technical and it's fairly specific to
your particular application
so let's scroll down and see what we
need to do there's a lot of text here
but i'm just going to take you to the
most interesting parts
the first part is we need to make sure
that our servers or the underlying os
that we want to install is supported now
here we see that the
server windows server 2012 and up are
supported however
windows 10 is also supported now in our
example today i will be using windows 10
machine for the deployment but you could
use
windows 10 i believe even earlier
versions will also work if you
run them now we can install it on linux
in debian but we're not going to be
using it
for now most of the people will be
installing it on linux on
on windows not on linux and so we're
going to address
this part first in order for us to
deploy
creation we need to first make sure that
our windows machine complies with all
the
requirements so let's go into uh
deploying creation.net framework
application on windows let's follow this
link
when we follow this link we'll see that
some requirements
or some packages we need to install we
need to make sure that we install
net core sdk 3.1 and that we install
framework sdk472
this will be required for our
application server to compile your
source code or to compile the
application do many
many tasks that we when we run wizards
etc
now there's also a bunch of requirements
here on the windows component side
and this is what we're going to
concentrate on now if you need to
download your sdks just make sure you
follow the link and
click through the installation guide
provided by microsoft
and these sdks will be installed most
likely your machine will need to be
restarted or rebooted at least once when
you're installing it so please take some
time
there's also another dot net core is
decade that is required if you
want to run identity service you need
dotnet core
2.2 so you're also going to have to go
and install it and i'll show you
how to do that later in this tutorial
and here we see that the windows 10 is
not
a production grade os and yet
it's still supported so let's take a
look at these common features and let's
take a look at the components that
windows machine needs to have installed
prior to trying to or attempting to
install creation
so on the left hand side the features
are broken down into
the related components into groups and
on the right hand side
is the name of the component itself in
order for you to install these
components you need to navigate to
control panel and
activate them this is what i'm going to
do so on my windows machine i'll just
press start button and say control panel
and go to my control panel
and here we can go inside the programs
and in the middle there is going to be
turn
windows features on and off this is the
screen that we want to get to
now depending on what you already have
installed or what rights you have on
your machine you may
have some of these components installed
make sure that your
sdks.netcore.net frameworks are
previously installed otherwise you will
not be able to see these two checkboxes
now it's time for me to install these
components the installation is fairly
straightforward as all you need to do is
just simply find the component which is
the most challenging part
and then put a checkbox next to it so
let's start off with this common http
feature static content default content
etc
they're located under iis information
services
web web services or www services
and then here are my components so
application development common http
features and inside these common http
features
are the actual component items that i'm
looking for
here is my static content here's my
default
document http error and redirection on
the left
it is up to you to make sure that you
click through all of them
and what i find sometimes people are not
clicking through all of them or they
think that they click through all of
them
and then something happens during the
deployment and the application doesn't
work
just make sure that all these items are
select and double check
i will provide you with a powerful
script later or as pow
as attachment to this tutorial that you
can run to make sure that all these
components are activated
i do however encourage you to do it by
hand at least once so you have an
understanding of how it's done without
any automations
now towards the bottom of this article
you'll see that you have similar
instructions provided how to go to
control panel how to find them
and then the instructions are offered
for windows server installations as well
as
for xp for windows 10.
now that we have installed all the
necessary components it's time for us to
move on to the installation of the
actual
application i've already downloaded
the application you can take it wherever
you are taking the
uh the components of the application and
what i'm going to do is
i i've gotten the zip file that
essentially contains everything that i
need the backup to my database etc
and i'm going to simply extract it here
now i have a program called 7zip that
allows me to
to unzip files a little bit faster so
i'm going to use
7-zip to extract files now i can extract
files to a particular directory which is
what i'm intending to do
or you can just simply dump them in the
entire directory
okay so now that my installation or that
my extraction is completed it's time for
us to start playing around with that
various components
now i have some components installed as
part of the infrastructure inside docker
container
namely i'm using my redis as the
docker container now there is no
official version of
redis for windows there is only a
workaround
so it's not recommended that you run
even in pre-production
environment when the red is on windows
however many people do and if you want
to do so just google for
redis for windows and there's going to
be an msi file that you can just
just install and becomes one of the
windows services
in my case though i will be using it in
docker and i will provide you with
all the necessary docker compose files
so you can restore this infrastructure
on your own machine now that i have my
installation directory unzipped
i can take a look at what's inside we'll
find a bunch of files bunch of
directories
and one of them is going to be identity
service we will be installing later
there is going to be a connection string
file where we have to specify how to
connect to the underlying databases
and there is going to be idb folder the
b folder here contains a backup
to mssql in my case i'm installing a
mess sql
but the procedure for postgrad is very
similar it's going to contain a backup
file that we will use to restore
the database the next thing we need to
do is we need to actually use this
directory and put it in a place where we
can
bring up a website so in order for me to
do that
i'm going to be using my iis now is
what's going to
run the application and currently i have
some applications already installed here
but i will have them turned off as you
can tell that i have already some
samples installed here
but they are all deactivated
now by default i prefer to install my
applications in a particular space on
the disk and that's going to be under
in that pub www and then
all my applications are going to end up
here now the reason i choose to install
it in this particular four
folders because this folder by default
is where iis
wants to look for all the files and
there aren't going to be any permissions
issues
now if you want to install it in some
other directory you need to make sure
that you give proper permissions for the
iis user to execute
against that directory you can do that
quite easily so let's create
a new directory creatio
demo oops demo
and if i want to install it let's say
inside this directory and i want to
point
iis to work in this directory i need to
make sure that the iis
user has the necessary permissions i'll
right click properties on the directory
i'll go into my security and i'll make
sure that the user
is actually has permissions so let's go
here under
edit i believe and let's add a new user
it's going to be ias is you
i saw i believe let's check names
hopefully it picks it up if it doesn't
i you sr something like this
let's uh search for it
no not in the domain in my machine
and object type
this is probably the hardest part i
can't find them
let's go on the advanced
and in here we can start with searches
find now but what am i looking for
let's start find now and i s
here that's the one that i want so this
is the user that i want to
know again didn't get it right
sorry let's do it again this is the one
that i want
is iusrs so just a weird name
but you just have to make sure that you
find this uh
find this user okay so now that i've
selected this user to have access to
this directory i also want to make sure
that i
grant full control to this director
otherwise
the user that executes the thread will
not be able to touch the files and
modify them
as the application requires to do so so
make sure that you allow full control to
this folder
okay and now we can click apply and we
can click
on ok now in some machines where you do
not have administrative access that
would be a problematic issue
so make sure that you talk to your
system administrators and they allow you
to
great um that they allow you to
connect to
or execute something as the
administrator just give me a second i'll
try to
relog into my machine
all right so now we've applied
permissions to
this folder so after having reconnected
now we've applied permissions to this
folder and the next thing i want to do
is i want to make sure that
i copy the content of our zip folder
inside this directory
so let's go back into our previously
extracted directory
and just copy the whole thing and i'll
use control x to
cut and i'm going to paste it into this
directory
now after having pasted everything back
into
this drive the next thing that we're
going to do is we're going to try to
create
with the help of iis we're going to try
to create a website and the application
pool
let's open our is manager and
in here i have some sites and some
application pools but they're all
stopped as you could tell so let's
create a new one we'll add a website
let's give it a name so i'm going to
call it stu
creatio studio
and let's give it a path to the folder
that we have
extracted our director our product in
so creation demo now we can specify
we have to specify a port i'm going to
i'm going to pick 7010
any port will do 82 85 80 whatever the
case might be
just make sure that this port is not
occupied by anything else
the host name i'm going to specify is my
own local host name
this is the name of my machine if you
want to find out what your
machine name is just open your console
and type in host
name as one word and you will know what
your host name is
now the only reason i'm doing it is just
because i'm addressing this machine from
other applications by this
host name so it makes sense uh
for me to make sure that my ies site is
going to be responsive
when i'm addressing this way okay so
let's save this
and now let's open the website right
click on it and say add application
give it an alias of zero and specify
physical path
to the same folder but inside that
folder there is another folder called
chairsoft web app so let's just make
sure that we
select airsoft web app at this point
good
as soon as you add this application a
new application pool will be created in
iis
if it doesn't get created you can go and
manually add it
by hand so all you can do is you can say
add application pool
give it a name so let's say test pool
make sure that it's a clr
integrated start immediately here's my
test app pool
and if i wanted to add an application
pool so for example i'm going to add
an application when i'm creating it here
i can select the application that i uh i
can use any pool that i have previously
selected
so you can go ahead and create the pool
first and then
add the application or you can just
simply add the application and the pool
will be created
now if the pool doesn't get created in
the right way then just make sure that
you
override it by hand okay so now we've
got the application pool and we've got
the website configured and if you try
navigating to this port 7010
then you're going to get an error we
have not specified a connection string
to our redis database
we have not specified a string to our
data database server
and this is what we're going to do next
so the website at this point is not
working at all
all right if we want to follow the
instructions
uh we can take a look how we can
install redis and how we can install the
database
but in my particular case what i'm going
to do is i'm going to just simply start
my iis
so my uh not my is my sql so
i have um
i have sql installed already i'm not
going to go through the installation
uh just follow uh standard
sql express installation tutorials
online
and you will be able to figure out how
to do that
in my case the service is not started so
i'm going to go and start
you don't need to do that if you if you
never shut it down so if you just simply
installed it
then you don't need to do anything i'm
also going to start the agent as well
so just come here and click start
okay perfect so now everything is up and
running
and the next thing that we need to do is
we need to log on to our sql server
make sure that we note the connection
string and then we're going to have to
go
and adjust this connection string all
right
for that i'm going to use sql studio but
before you do a sql studio let me point
out to couple of uh
common mistakes or common
issues that people might be having so
let's go into
sql server i believe it's called
uh i think that's the installation
center or
import export data i'm sorry
uh sql server
uh where's this management studio
profiler
error
uh you know what let's just skip it for
now let's go let's go straight into
studio studio
inside sql studio we'll use this product
to restore the database and
feed the feed the drive feed the file
that's located here in db folder
so this is what we're going to be
restoring right now
let me connect to my instance i'm
connecting as the administrator
with the help of and uh with the help of
nt authentication
but you need to make sure off on your
sql express and this is probably the
easiest
configuration is to go right click on
the name of your server
click properties and in security make
sure that you allow
sql server authentication mode now you
can
use it with windows authentication mode
in my particular case i'm using sql
server authentication mode rather than
windows so i can specify the username
and password
directly in my connection string when
i'm using it for
when i'm using it with with my product
okay let's go in the database and i have
i believe one database here already
installed so let's just simply right
click
on the databases and say restore
database so here's the
option restore database and we're going
to specify device
from which we're restoring and device
happens to be just a physical location
so we're going to go back on our c drive
find creation demo
find db folder select it and here's my
backup file
and let's click ok now the studio
database that's a default name that's
going to be
given by the creators of this backup you
can rename it at any
you can rename it at this point and why
don't we just take a look what we call
their website in is
we called it creatio studio
and let's go ahead and call this thing
as well creation
studio now it's going to perform a full
backup it's telling you the version
of the backup and just simply click ok
the backup doesn't take too long and in
later
uh parts of the tutorial i'll show you
how to restore it with the help of
powershell so you don't have to do it by
hand
okay so now that we've restored the
database we also need to make sure that
we have a user who can connect to this
database
now to create a user you can go into
security and to
logins and just simply right click on
the login create new login
come up with the name make sure it's a
sql authentication
provide the name username and password
make sure that you uncheck enforce
policy security so you can provide some
simple passwords such as one one one
since it's just a development machine
we don't want any any issues with the
security here
so i've done that already and i've
created myself two usernames one is
called creation one is called supervisor
for no good reason it just the name that
i've decided to give
it let's now go back into our database
the one that we just restored and what
we can do is we can either right click
on the database here go into properties
and we can specify permissions okay and
create user mappings this way
but what i find the easiest is just to
simply go to a login right click on the
login go to properties
and from the properties you go to user
mappings
okay choose the user mapping that you
would like to use in this case you can
say creatio studio
and make sure that you give it a role of
db owner
now we can do the same thing for say
another user if you want to have more
than one user connecting to this
database
so all we have to do is use our mapping
and where's my creation studio and let's
just give it a db owner
perfect so now we have a user we can
try logging on so to make sure that i
can
actually connect what i'm going to do is
i'm going to disconnect now and i'm
going to try to reconnect
and instead of using windows
authentication i'm going to try to use
sql authentication
and i think the password is
supervisor let me connect
and i can see that i can connect and i
have access to creation studio
i can perform queries
uh so let's make sure we use creation
studio and let's
select i don't know id from contact
and if i execute the query you could
tell that i'm getting some records back
perfect so i've got my database working
it's now time for me to
configure my connection strings now
what i'm going to do is i'm going to
actually copy this
copy this uh database name for
later use but now let's go ahead and
configure it so
in our
i think this is us right no this is us
on this disk uh directory there is a
file called connection string
let's find it here's a connection string
and i'll open it with my favorite text
editor
so here's my connection string and i
have an example of a connection string
that i was using in the past this is
what it's going to look like
when you open it on your screen and
we're going to have to modify a couple
of lines here
the first line that you want to modify
is this this is the line that's
responsible for specifying where your
redis lives
now in my case my redis lives on my
local host so i can just simply say
localhost or local host
i have to assign a database by default
redis when installed in docker or as a
windows service has 16 databases with
the
xero based index so 0 is the first
database and 15 is the last one
so we're going to give it let's say
database 15 as i i'm pretty sure i'm not
using it for anything
at the moment on my machine 6379 is a
default port for redis so if you haven't
configured anything
differently then 6379 is going to be the
port that
radius will listen on the next thing for
us to configure
is this line and this line is our
database connection let me just copy
this database connection string
you can build your own but i'm since
i've already pre-built it
i'm just simply going to copy it here
and we're going to tweak it a little bit
so in this case i'm specifying a data
source for
my instance of sql and i can easily get
it if i look
at my sql management studio i
you can tell what this is it's going to
say
your connection string here not
connection string that the instance of
the server
you can also simply disconnect from it
and try to reconnect
and here is your connection string
another connection string but the
server name the initial catalog refers
to the database name
so if we're going to go back here as a
um let me just log in
and the database that we would like to
target is this so
select this database press f2 and just
simply
copy the name of the database so that's
going to be
my database name now the user id in
mind the space between the user and id
this is the right spelling
is going to say creation this is the
user who's going to be accessing
our database or essentially this is
going to be the user that the
application pool is using to access the
database
we're then specifying the password and
this is the reason that i wanted to use
sql authentication so i can specify it
very vividly
right here in my connection string and
then couple of other properties how to
manage the connection
this is all we have to do in order for
us to start with the application
so let's make sure we save this and we
can now
roll down our studio the next thing that
i want to do is i want to simply check
if my application is running now we can
specify additional properties and
additional settings and configure them
but that's something that we're going to
do with the help of a batch file that
i've prepared for us that will do all
this work for us automatically
let's make sure that we can navigate to
7010 and that the application actually
starts
in some cases this application may not
start and will give you some errors
so in this case system argument
exception parameter host cannot be
empty string now it's too bad it's not
telling us where but
we simply need to go and configure um
go and find where we did not configure
this so maybe it's in our
connection string so let's just simply
find
the connection string and host has to be
i believe
this way so i i believe i missed the
word host this is the proper spelling
and i forgot it so if you make a mistake
you will get an error here
this way this kind of error message and
just make sure that you
uh you can debug it you will also get
some ideas or some hints
into what's not working in this
particular pic in this particular case
you could clearly see that
there's a lot of mention of redis so you
know that something is going on with
redis
let's just try to f5 on this page and
reload it
if everything goes correctly i should
see a login page which is what i expect
at this point
also mind you that you get some
redirects here okay and at this point we
can try to log in with the super
supervisor supervisor
now another reason that i've created
this creation supervisor username and
password here is that
what the database credentials are in
here for this database
they have nothing to do with what your
username and password will be here
and the reason they have nothing to do
here is because
this is how you're accessing the
database
and supervisor supervisor is how you're
actually accessing the application
the first time we start the application
it might take us a little while
to load the application but then
essentially everything
works just fine now once your
application is loaded for the first time
you can try
navigating from place to place you can
go to different sections just to make
sure
everything works fine the best test and
the best
the best advice that i can give you is
to just go into a cog wheel here
scroll all the way down go to your
advanced settings another by the way
shortcut in the advanced settings if you
open the new tab
and if you go to slash zero slash dev it
will also take you in the back end
now when you're here in the back end the
thing that you want to check is to make
sure that everything compiles
you usually do it only for the first
time on the machine that you're
installing the application for the first
time so if it's your server
and it's the first time you're
installing application for the first
time you want to make sure that the
dependencies are addressed
to make sure that everything is
installed just simply click on compile
if you're missing some components the
compilation will let you know
immediately
or it will let you know immediately
after it fails to compile
so it one way or the other if your
compilation is successful
then you know everything is installed
correctly now this is not the first time
that i'm installing a
instance of creation on this machine so
i'm pretty confident that things will go
as planned now after this
compilation is completed you can see you
can you can then
go ahead and convert it to development
and file system mode or do whatever it
is that you want to do
and in my case you could tell that the
operation was successful so i now know
that everything that i did is correctly
installed
the next couple of things that we want
to do is we want to probably configure
it to operate
with the to work with the exchange
listener
to maybe install uh identity service and
things of that nature
now previous episodes demonstrated how
to configure
exchange listeners so i'm not going to
spend time on that but what i will spend
time on a little bit right now
is to show you how and walk you through
a powershell script that will help you
configure the application in a similar
fashion
so let me close this down let me close
this
on this thing down okay let me close all
this stuff down
and what i'm going to do is i'm going to
stop uh all these
applications i don't want it to consume
any any ram right now
so i'm going to stop them all
my test pool i can stop and everything
should stop now in creation studio let
me stop this one as well
okay perfect
let me now find i believe
i have a directory here and my builds
and in my install scripts
uh install creation now that's not the
right one
just give me a second i'm looking for it
maybe it's
in this episode that i copied it
uh postgrad database install creatio
no that's not the one uh
one second install creation
let me see if this is the one
right so what we're trying to do here
is we're trying to create an application
pool
or we're trying to create essentially a
powershell
script that helps us with the database
so before we we did quite a lot of steps
manually here
and what we're going to try to do now is
we're going to try to
build the same thing but now with the
help of the
with the help of powershell script now
let's uh
explore some of the infrastructure that
i kind of alluded to before but i
haven't really shown it to you
so in my docker i have a couple of
containers running so as soon as it
starts
you'll see that i have exchange sync
running this is the exchange listener
container
i got a redis running and i got a
postgrad database running here
as well now the postgrad database
contains
two containers actually one is just the
actual postgrad database itself so
that's the thing that
stores the data and allows for
persistent data storage
but then i'm also running a separate
container for pg admin and the pg admin
is the container that allows me to
manage my
postgrad database with the gui rather
than with the command mode
now you can tell that i've exposed port
8080 for
pg admin i've exposed port 5432
for my database i've done the same thing
for my redis and i exposed port 6379
and this is why i can connect from
creation running in windows
to redis running in a subsystem for
linux on windows this is this is how i'm
running my redis
so if i simply navigate now to localhost
port 8080
and let's try making make sure that it's
actually work
i will be greeted by my postgrad now
i've configured my username and password
already so
as soon as i connect i should be able oh
there's an update great
as soon as i connect i should be able to
see my server and all my databases and
whatever else i have here now with the
help of this tool just like we did with
the help of
sql from window from microsoft
with the help of postgrad we can also
restore the database in exactly the same
way
if we want to go to database we can say
create and once the database is created
we can
essentially come back here and we can
restore the database so the process is
exactly
the same but rather than using uh
this gui what i would rather do is i
would rather not touch the gui at all
and i want to make sure that i can
install everything
with the help of my um with the help of
my
uh powershell so let me open uh
visual studio and let me open this
directory and i believe
this is not the right place so let me
just open this guy
all right so
what we're seeing here um yeah i think
this is the right place
uh and i will share all these scripts
for you so what we're seeing here is
inside this file we're gonna start
installing the application
now the partial script starts off with
the couple of parameters it's asking for
at the
input so it says that i need to know the
app name and i need to know the
folder name some db user and the db
password
some ports and basically a bunch of
other configurations that
are necessary for me to install the
application
then we're gonna go and we're gonna
start with the various installation
steps so step one we need to make sure
that we create the directory
i'm taking simply the app name and i'm
saying i'm gonna create this directory
and i'm going to copy
everything into that directory
i'm then going to restore my powershell
restore my
database with the help of postgresql and
here's how i'm restoring it so here's
two steps to restore the database
first we execute command in docker to
make sure that we create the database
and then we execute the command that we
actually restore the database
and i can go ahead and delete the
database folder if i wanted to
and then i can start configuring my
connection string and here i'm parsing
my connection string
file i'm looking for the redis
name and i'm just simply giving it a
localhost radius
a db number which i'm taking as a
parameter into the script and i'm
specifying the port
i'm doing exactly the same thing to
address the connection to the database
and at this point my database is
restored now in microsoft sql restoring
the databases
you saw takes no time at all maybe a
second maybe two
on postgre it takes quite a bit of time
in my case it takes up to four minutes
to restore database so if you're sitting
there and you're thinking that nothing
is happening
things are happening it just it just
takes significantly longer
the next step for us is to create iis
this
uh or create the website and create the
application pool
these steps are exactly the same for ms
sql installation as well as a postgrad
i have install creation in this install
script that i will share with you and
this is for postgre i'll probably give
it a proper name
and then i believe there is an install
script for
sql and you could tell that the sql is
slightly
different and this is just to make sure
that i am now restoring the database
with ms sql
but the rest of the script is it
actually exactly the same
so let's proceed with the installation
take a look at what's happening here
creatio register we're going to create a
web app we're going to go and
update clio because i'm going to be
using clio to make sure that i can
connect
to my application then inside my
application i'm going to install clio
gate
then i'm going to use clio to turn off
these widgets
for news i'm going to overwrite a couple
of other settings i'm going to set up my
default time zone to a particular value
i'm going to override the user session
value etc and i'm going to go and
reconfigure a bunch of stuff here all
with the help of clio
and then at the end as soon as the clio
is done
reconfiguring my application all i want
to do is i want to make sure that
i start the process and navigate to this
host and port
now the way i launch it is perhaps not
the way that
you would launch it normally but i just
find it a little bit easier inside
visual studio
to do it this way so inside my visual
studio
in the launcher json what i have is i
have couple of launch files here
so if you go inside the visual studio
debugger you will see that you can
launch
this powershell script with couple of
configuration options
install creation psql just regular
powershell
install creation with ms sql when i want
to install creation with psql i have to
address this section
i have to specify the app name folder
name where this stuff is stored
i have to make sure that i specify
username and password
the port where it's going to live the
database or redis database number as
well as redisport
and couple of other parameters and
they're specific to my application
so let's go ahead and do that we're
going to give it a
app name we're going to call it creatio
studio
now one thing that uh be careful of
is for some reason i found that
if i call through powershell scripts my
database with the uppercase
letters then something is not working
correctly and the database
is always created in either lowercase or
uppercase and
it's probably something to do with my
script but i couldn't figure out it
real quick so if you want to use this
script and you want to use these launch
parameters then just make sure that
everything is in the lower case
okay so folder name i will explain what
that stuff is and how it works
but we're going to specify that to
connect to my redis database is going to
be a supervisor the password is also
supervisor
let's put it on the port 7020 just to
make sure it lives there and the
uh ms application was installed on redis
15 so let's give this red is 14.
my redis port is 63.79
and i'm using studio softkey
backup file okay so now
that i've configured my launcher
essentially what the launcher file
allows me to do is rather than
typing this entire command by hand every
time
i can just simply now open my
installation file and say
apply these launcher settings okay and
just simply go ahead and launch them
it will start the powershell and visuals
well not in visual studio but it will
start an instance of my powershell and
it will create me
this application now what i realize is
that i may have called my
application pool and my website to
very similar to what windows instance
already has
so it may or may not fail on me i didn't
i didn't think of it but in the meantime
while we're doing this or while visual
studio is doing this and it's going to
do it for a couple of minutes let's go
and take a look how my infrastructure is
laid out here
so on my disk c when i built my
docker files i've created couple of
volumes
i've got volumes that i'm passing to pg
admin i've got volumes that i'm passing
or
disk space that i'm passing to
postgresql
and in postgrassclaw what you're seeing
here is essentially what's on linux
these files are called so this is inside
the etsy directory and i don't remember
the exact
uh space uh the exact name of this
directory but
we got to look at the docker compose
file so i'm passing it and essentially
i can take a backup of this directory
and this would represent backup of my
entire server
i've created myself files called db
images
db images are files that i'm using to
restore my database
just like in windows application you had
a db folder
when you're going to download a
postgraph
when you're going to download a postgrad
file there's also going to be a db
file now this db file is going to be
obviously in different format and called
something
different so what i did is i essentially
copied them all because i only need one
per type of the application so if i want
a studio
it is always going to be the same backup
file if i want a
full bundle then it's also going to be
exactly the same file for bundle so
i just simply copied them and pre-copied
them so i don't have to make sure that
i'm copying the entire thing just kind
of speeds things up a little bit
so this is what this file name is okay
now let's go back into our studio and
take a look at what the studio is doing
now
so powershell is now trying to restore
database and it essentially gotten to
this point
it gotten to a point of here creating
the
database right so it probably already
created this process takes
no time at all um this is really really
fast and inexpensive
but this takes some time so
what are we doing here well the first
thing when you're restoring a database
is you need to create it now in ms
we didn't have to do it but in postgre
you first have to create a database give
it a name
specify some of the parameters and then
you need to make sure that you're
restoring it
now granted that it's done that it's
living in the docker so it's living
inside this kind of a
isolated environment we have to use a
docker exact command out of the
powershell to restore it now there are
other ways but i found that this is the
easiest to get it going
so all i'm saying here is docker go and
execute some command in interactive mode
i am addressing the container where my
particular database lives
i'm specifying the username or
basically parameters how to restore it
i'm saying no owner no privileges
a couple of other keys and essentially
here's my database
name now where am i going to take this
database name i'm going to take it yeah
i'm going to take it from usr local db
db file name now what we saw now is that
i made a mistake and when i restored the
database
or when i gave the parameters to launch
is i did not specify a unique name for
my application server
so this application server creation
creation studio already exists
so what we can do is say creatio studio
p sql right so now that's going to be a
unique name
i just make sure we give it another
i just for now i'll clean it up later
but let's make sure that we do this
70 30. okay let's save this
and let's try launching it one more time
so the same way
psql so now the name of my application
the name of my uh
the name of everything is essentially
unique i
cannot debug until the
what until
has started okay so i crashed the
powershell
so let's start a new one and let's see
if you can launch
in noaa
okay let's see if we can add another
instance of it
can you launch now
um okay let's close
this one and let's reopen our studio one
more time so
sometimes this happens and that was my
fault
so back to where we were let's go back
to
installer let's go back to debugger and
just simply
launch it okay so now it's copying it to
creation
psql and what we can do is we can
essentially go back to our
local disk c and we can take a look at
what was
happening in the past so if we're going
to go back to inet pub
and we're going to go back in the root
application you could tell that here's
my creation studio
and i just essentially copied everything
into one directory so i made a
i made a mistake here so a few things
that i need to do
when i am removing the application the
first thing i would normally start off
with
is i'm going to go back to my ms into my
iis
inside my ass i could tell here's my
creation studio
and inside this creation studio i can
just simply
delete this thing i can right click on
it and i can delete it
if a machine allows me but before i
delete it
yes i'm sure i want to delete it
before you delete it make sure that
you're deleting actually the right one
you might have a ton of applications
here and now we're ready to come back
here to creation studio application pool
and delete this thing as well
so let's remove this one as well now
everything is
fine here but um what you need to know
about
is that under your users directory
usually
depending on how your machine is
configured you may also get an
application
you may also get a directory for your
user for every application pool
so the way my machine is configured in
particular
every time i'm adding in the app pool it
creates a directory for this user
and then happens to be about 200
megabytes or maybe even 500 megabytes if
i'm whoa that's huge actually
so what you may want to do is you want
to make sure
that when you're deleting the
application that
things are simply dis that you're
deleting them
if you install it 10 or 15 times i mean
5 gigs is not that much
but what you may want to make sure off
is that you actually go and delete it
right because this is junk right now
this user doesn't exist
it was created for us when
the application was added and now we
just cleaned up and
now everything is fine now don't delete
too much
this is my actual user don't delete
temps and
these might be actually useful for you
just make sure that you only delete
things that
you want to delete okay there is nothing
else to do
um the other thing that we may want to
do is we may want to
uh just free up a few resources so we're
going to go to
sql service and since i'm not using a ms
sql
on my local environment i'm going to go
and
stop this application here
so let's search for sql
sql server and i can just simply stop it
i no longer want to use it and i believe
this one agent is also running
this will free up maybe i don't know
half a gig of ram
uh not much but if you're on limited
resources that that might actually
make significant changes okay so now you
could tell that here's my creation
studio psql so this is the
one that is being installed but then
this
creation studio we can just simply nuke
directory so the previous one that we
used for
microsoft windows now let's take a look
at the application what the script is
doing now
um so created new app pool environment
uh was configured try logging in so it's
trying to log in right now with the
creation
permissions by with the help of clio
somewhere here we'll see that the clio
is being
checked or updated
so clio is trying to uh here create clio
was reinstalled to the latest
version clio is our command line
interface
now the first time you're trying to
connect to clear this will take some
time
and that's because well the application
actually needs to start
um start something and as soon as the
clio
was able to connect it's going to try to
install
a clio gate automatically
cleargate is the api extension that
allows us to perform things such as
setting up
configuration settings installing
packages and things of that nature
specifying your cultures configuring
many many different things
and essentially everything and anything
and everything about creation can be
done
with clio so sometimes you'll see the
remote server return errors that's
that's fine um all we're doing now is
we're configuring system
settings you could see that they're all
being updated i'm
turning things on and turning things off
i am installing
setting myself to debug mode and then at
this point
my application is completed
i'm gonna try to log on with the
supervisor
supervisor i'm logging on you could tell
that there is no more this
widget that tells me things about the
news anymore
so that's gone and there are going to be
a couple of other notable differences
as soon as my application is installed
you see it's in the debug mode
if i go into my profile you will also
see that
i have my language configured for myself
as well as the default time zone for all
users
now all i have to do is just simply
choose my date time format if i so
choose
and my time zone but i'm happy with the
default configurations that
that are applied so essentially at this
point everything is configured
as well as the exchange listener so if
we wanted to simply go
and let's see if we can add
an email really quickly
so let's go into go to mailbox settings
let's create a mailbox and i'm going to
add
my work email
and that's going to be office 365.
i'm going to provide my username and
password
and if everything is installed correctly
then i should be able to connect
perfect uh it's been successfully added
so now i know my exchange listener
is also connected to this instance and
i'm going to go and immediately
change my settings as i do not wish for
any emails to be downloaded
right so you can just go ahead and
configure email or go
through the exchange listener
configuration so
this is essentially how you would
configure
creatio to run for the first time
on the new instance of the application
now just for good measure
since we're in the debug mode already
let's click on this button
let's make sure that we can also perform
this step to recompile our application
just to make sure that nothing is broken
and if application compiles
installs and compiles and we know
everything has been
installed successfully so let's give it
a
let's give it a moment hopefully it's
not going to be too long
in terms of performance if you're
wondering what's faster
running it in windows with ms running it
on windows
with postgrain docker postgre natively
installed on windows
um perhaps i'm not the best judge
uh i can't tell you uh what's faster
what's better
i found that it's just as lightning fast
in one uh technology as it is with the
other
i honestly did not find any differences
operation
is successful so i know my creatio is uh
perfectly installed now i'm talking
close this thing
and i am i can go back to my let's say
to my pg admin and just to make sure
that i can connect to my database just
to kind of
give it a quick look so what you will
see here is that we've got this
postgresql now
here's my postgresql and here's my
previous attempt
that has failed the database didn't
actually fail to restore but we failed
to
create ies and the pool so what i can
just simply do here is i can delete this
or drop this database it's going to ask
me if i'm sure
i say i am and it's going to go and
delete it now the
web ui for pg admin is not as
refined as let's say a native
application such as
sql studio but it's good enough it's
definitely good enough to perform most
of the common tasks
if i want to go now inside let's say my
schemas
i want to go to my public and i want to
go into my tables
here's a list of all the tables and it
gives you all the same features
as before you've got here under uh tools
i believe
uh query tool and from the query tool
you can
query whatever you want so let's just
say that we want to query something
select id from
and i believe it's called public dot um
contact if i'm not mistaken
uh id i think
everything needs to be in single quotes
here
i think from public
contact that's weird
select id from
public contact that's uh that looks
right
uh maybe i need that oh no hold on it
needs to be double quotes
right double or single well whichever
way
uh i don't spend a lot of time here
select id
okay so there we go so everything needs
to be escaped with double quotes
um so this is kind of unfortunate way of
that we need to address p sql but
this is the only difference that
probably you're going to care about
if you get to work with psql and most of
the time when you're doing development
you
quite honestly don't care all right so
um
this concludes our
this concludes our session for today for
how to install
creation i will provide you with all the
necessary files for
installing creation with the help of a
script and i will provide you with the
docker compose files that you can
let's say resurrect the environment if
you so choose and then just simply use
my files
if you want to see how it's done i'll
provide you with two options with the
option for
microsoft sql as well as postgrad if you
have any questions as usual
please raise an issue on the github
repository where all the files are going
to be posted
and i will try to help you out as much
as possible so thank you very much and
i'll see you
next time in the next episode is going
to be dedicated to
working with integrations
and we're still going to do a little bit
of infrastructure we're going to have to
install
an additional component uh called
identity service
and then we're going to try to use
identity service to authenticate
ourselves
and to exchange some data with creation
so see you on the next episode thanks